             DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING
                  CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, FULLERTON

             EGCE 570 - Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment
                                     Fall of 2017
                            Hsuehhwa Andy Lee, Ph.D., P.E.


Prerequisite
Enrollment in MS in Environmental Engineering program or consent of the instructor

References (No textbooks are assigned for this course)
§ “Chemical Fate and Transport in the Environment (2nd ed.)” by Hemond & Fechner-Levy,
  Academic Press (1999).
§ “Chemistry, The Central Science (12th ed.)” by Brown, LeMay, Jr., Bursten, Murphy, and
  Woodward, Prentice Hall (2011).

Homework
Be sure to keep current in your homework assignment. Problems must be worked on an 8.5” x
11” paper. Late homework and/or those not conforming to the above guidelines will not be
graded.

Drop Policy
Please consult the Fall 2017 Schedule regarding the University regulations and the deadlines for
dropping this course. Note that the department stamp and/or the Department chair’s signature is
required in addition to instructor’s signature.

Scheduled Examinations
Anyone missing a scheduled examination must notify the instructor or the department office in
advance except for bona fide emergencies. It must be followed by a written letter from a medical
doctor or other appropriate official. For excused absences, no make-up examinations will be
given and average scores in other examination maybe just extended, at the discretion of the
instructor. Unexcused absences count as if a zero score has been obtained.

Grading Policy
You will be graded on a curve and you can score a total of 100 points in this course. (Tentative
grade scale: 90 – 100% = A; 87 – 89 % = A-; 84 – 86 % = B+; 80 – 83 % = B; 77 – 79 % = B-;
74 – 76 % = C+; 70 – 73 % = C; 67 – 69 % = C-; 64 – 66 % = D+; 60 – 63 % = D; 57 – 59 % =
D-; <57% = F (Keep and show all your graded assignments and exams if you have questions on
the homework and midterm scores used in deriving your final grade).

        Homework/Class participation             25 %
        Scheduled Midterm (10/14/2017)           30 %
        FINAL EXAM (12/9/2017)                   35 %

Required Technical Competencies and Equipment
By Appointment Only. I usually responsd email in 48 hrs. Please post any course related
questions on the course blog. So I don’t have to answer the same questions many times. Only
email me if it’s personal.
,Required Technical Competencies and Equipment
All course materials will be distributed using the CSUF TITANium system. To use TITANium
and their student portal, students will need access to a computer and an Internet connection.
Submission of hand-written problem sets will require the use of a scanner. The details of
minimum technical specifications, internet connection/access, and computer skills and
competencies are shown below:

    1. Computer Requirement
    To fully participate in this course, you will need to have and successfully operate a computer
    system that meets the following minimum technical specifications:
    Operating System: Windows XP or higher, Macintosh OS X
    Processor: 1.0 GHz or higher preferred.        Memory: 1 GB of RAM or higher.
    Plug-ins: Adobe Reader, Flash Player, Quicktime, Java, Windows Media Player
    Browser: Chrome, Firefox, or Internet Explorer (Safari for Mac)
    Software: Microsoft Office 2003 or Open Office, PowerPoint 2010 Viewer
    E-mail Account: Must be able to send/receive attachments.

    2. Internet Connection/Access: Students are required to have a dependable connection to the
    Internet. The speed and reliability of your connection can and will directly influence your
    online learning experience and your ability to successfully complete assignments. A Cable,
    DSL, or other high speed network is highly recommended.

    3. Computer Skills and Competencies
    Students who enroll in online courses and/or programs must have the requisite knowledge to
    use the computer, navigate the internet, and use TITANium.

On-Line Participation
Student on-line participation (e.g., blog postings) is expected.

On-line Availability of Instructor
The instructor will monitor course emails at least twice a week during the specified office hours.
Every effort will be made to respond to emails within 24 hours during the week, but this is not
guaranteed. Instructor will also be available on Skype during office hours (by appointment).
Skype availability may not always be immediate, depending upon the presence of other students
in the office. Alternatively, the instructor may be reached by phone.

Planned Assignments
Throughout the semester there will be 6-8 homework assignments. Homework assignments will
generally be calculation/design type problems relevant to class discussion. Assignments must be
submitted electronically onto TITANium by midnight of the day they are due. Unless
specifically indicated by the instructor, assignments should be submitted in a standard readable
format (PDF preferred). Calculations or diagrams completed by hand may be scanned and
submitted as a PDF, jpeg, or png. Ensure that scanned documents are readable, particularly if
using the greenish engineering paper. Assignments must be clearly labeled with the course
number, homework assignment number, page number and your name.

Examinations
Examinations will be offered on-campus on a Saturday for those near enough to drive in. Those
students not near enough to drive in will need to make arrangements to take the exams at an
approved testing center. Anyone missing a scheduled examination must notify the instructor or
the department office in advance except for bona fide emergencies. An absence must be followed
,by a written letter from a medical doctor or other appropriate official. For excused absences, no
make-up examinations will be given and the score of the other examination may just be extended,
at the discretion of the instructor. Unexcused absences count as if a zero score has been obtained.

On-campus Meeting Requirements
There is no required meeting requirement. However, the option exists for those students within
driving distance to take the Midterm and Final exams on campus. Those that do not take the
exams on campus will be required to take them at approved testing centers.

Technical Support
In case of technical problems, students may contact the CSUF Help Desk at 657-278-7722.

Disability Statement
If you have a disability or special need for which you are or may be requesting an
accommodation, please inform the instructor and contact the Disability Support Services Office,
located in University Hall 101, as early as possible in the term. For more information, the
Disability Support Services Office can be reached by calling (657) 278-3117 or visiting their
website at www.fullerton.edu/DSS/. Confidentiality will be protected.

Academic Integrity Statement
As stated in the CSUF Catalog "Plagiarism is defined as the act of taking the specific substance
of another and offering it as one’s own without giving credit to the source. When sources are
used, acknowledgment of the original author or source must be made following standard
scholarly practice." It is expected that all work submitted for this course, as well as any other at
Cal State Fullerton, will be your own unless properly attributed to another author. All work
should be original for this class and specific to the assignment. Unless an assignment is
specifically designated a team project, all assignments are expected to be completed individually.
If you have any questions, please contact the instructor.

Students who violate university standards of academic integrity are subject to disciplinary
sanctions, including failure in the course and suspension from the university. Since dishonesty in
any form harms you, other students, and the university, policies on academic integrity are strictly
enforced. We expect that you will familiarize yourself with the academic integrity guidelines in
the current Catalog and Student Handbook.

Safeguards, such as verification the identity of students during on-line participation and the
exams shall be taken at a proctored place, will be taken to ensure the authenticity of student work.

Appropriate On-Line Behavior
In all of their on-line interactions with the course instructor and their student colleagues, students
in this course are expected to exhibit appropriate on-line behavior. Such guidelines have been
famously compiled as “netiquette” by Virginia Shea (http://www.albion.com/netiquette). In
summary:
  § Do not write something on-line that would be considered rude or offensive in person;
  § Abide by civil and criminal laws (paying for shareware; eschewing piracy);
  § Make sure that the content you post is appropriate to the tone and purpose of the domain;
  § Respect others’ time and bandwidth by being succinct and taking care not to post
    accidentally;
  § Use formal language that is appropriate to a classroom setting;
,  §   Share what you know with others when it is helpful;
  §   Do not perpetuate extended “flaming”;
  §   Respect the privacy of others;
  §   Do not abuse your expert knowledge;
  §   Be forgiving of others’ mistakes.

You are encouraged to read more about netiquette at http://www.albion.com/netiquette

Emergency Procedures Policy
During an emergency it is necessary for students to have a basic understanding of their personal
responsibilities and the university’s emergency response procedures. In the event of an
emergency, please know the safe evacuation routes for your specific building and floor, as well as
the evacuation assembly areas for your building. Students can determine the university’s
operational status by checking the university’s web site at http://www.fullerton.edu, calling the
university’s hotline number at 657-519-0911, or tuning in to area radio and television
stations. Students should assume that classes will be held unless they hear or read an official
closure announcement. In the event of an emergency, please call 911. The campus non-
emergency line is 657-278-2515, and the 24-hour recorded emergency information line is 657-
519-0911. Additional information on university emergency procedures can be found at
http://www.fullerton.edu/emergencypreparedness/ep_students.html.
